fear in the financial system well it
depends who you ask in today's video
we're going to look at something I think
is extremely important I'm going to show
you the number one indication of the
health of the economy but also a factor
of speculation I want to touch on of
course a couple important points with
oil rising to a point that's fast enough
generating worry among investors and of
course the business people alike we've
got an instability that has been growing
as a result even the biggest companies
like Exxon Mobil right now they are
getting into lithium for electric
vehicles so we have some of the biggest
companies remember Exxon Mobil and one
point seems like not that long ago in
2013 they were the biggest company in
the world
then in 2020
they were replaced by who zoom zoom the
thing that you use to do video
conferencing and I remember making
videos about this consistently
mentioning how ludicrous this was and
people would say oh this is the new
economy you don't understand it's not
how it is before Exxon Mobil is making
the right moves and we'll talk further
into that subject in today's video well
I'll try to get into it here we go
beginning with this I see more fear than
any time in my business career says
blackrock's Larry Fink and so we have
this concern at this time but think
about it what major crisis are we going
through this isn't 2020 this isn't the
financial crisis and supposedly they've
been telling us that the banks are
a-okay we have big changes in labor we
have higher wages companies adapt
businesses adapt
and what's going on in China is a great
example of fever right the average
person is saving 35 percent of their
disposable income because they know that
could be disrupted at any point they're
making the right decision by the way by
not spending all their money but that
scares the consumer-driven economy right
now we're invested in China when we see
savings rate Decline and they're
consuming more that's it that's an
indication of more hope the issue is
that we as Business Leaders we as
political leaders if we don't provide
more hope this is what causes recessions
and so what I believe is that it's part
of the politicians it's part of the
media and everybody else together to
make people believe that everything is
okay even when it's not because that
alone that propaganda stimulates the
economy for Better or For Worse do you
agree with me do you see that I think
it's pretty clear Larry Fink is
admitting that and I'm simply just
trying to highlight that for you you get
it when you see a message from somebody
at the fed from somebody at the treasury
from a politician from the media in
general understand that is largely just
propaganda in order to keep the economy
afloat and you could say that's good you
could say that is a positive thing but
it's not the truth and if you want the
truth
well then we need to dig a Little Deeper
why would somebody care about the truth
why wouldn't we just give what were take
what we're given it's because we want to
thrive and prosper we don't want to be
those individuals out there watching the
mainstream media and believing it and
parroting it we want to know the truth
we want to thrive and prosper
stagflation is the big Boogeyman out
there and many increasingly fear its
return you've got oil going up this is a
big concern don't think it has to repeat
1970s okay that is not the case by early
summer investors looked increasingly
confident the global economy was
escaping the plague of stagflation
they're having a second thought rightly
so and so many things have been sticky
you look at this particularly with
shelter but also that goes with food and
energy these things are going up and
that is putting a kind of permanent
floor on where inflation can fall to and
of course when we get the new inflation
numbers that come out that's going to
give us a little bit more of a story
because the trend started going up again
so I will break that down for you if you
hit that thumbs up you're likely to see
these videos where I can bring that
information directly to you
JPMorgan forecast energy super cycle
with Brent crude potentially hitting 150
dollars a barrel this would of course
slow down the economy considerably this
would help a lot of companies like Exxon
Mobil but at 150 a barrel just imagine
where your gasoline would be now we've
been there before we've been at 150 and
uh that's generally not a good thing
what I would say is that even if it's
not 150 a barrel when oil is rising too
much that slows everything down and they
kind of need that if you want the slow
inflation down what would you do well
you've got to increase interest rates
and you've got to generally dry up that
liquidity there are many ways that you
can do this
whether it's a consequence of many
factors or maybe it's intentional
increasing oil prices could do just that
we will see
it's a there's a lot of moving Parts a
lot of moving parts
because initially if you increase oil
prices that increases inflation but if
they get too high then it's deflation
degree we'll see I don't think they want
to let anything fall
that's the way it goes and it's
difficult for oil to fall when
inventories are getting so thin this is
uh just showing us the Cushing Oklahoma
crude oil total stocks okay so how much
of the oil there is and it's getting
down to very very low levels at least
within the last you know a decade or so
oil imports poised to dwindle unless
more stimulus and I think it's important
to see this right now with it at this
time
you know just looking at
um
you know what China does we need to
watch it we need to watch it very
closely very important stuff okay watch
China like a hawk now there's deflation
and there's inflation many people have
been calling for deflation but it's not
so one-sided I'll tell you where
deflation has not been happening it's in
these markets the least affordable
housing markets I would like to
highlight Toronto which is number 10
which should really be number one
because it's stupid it's so stupid it's
Beyond housing prices are over a million
dollars on average and even if you drive
an hour from the city's core you're
still paying a million dollars it's
completely absurd but of course when
people are making you know fifty two
thousand dollars a year I guess you can
afford the million dollar mortgage I
guess okay anyway no deflation here let
me tell you another worrisome inflation
indicator surging mining costs higher
expenses threatened to increase prices
for consumers and complicate Central
bank's inflation fight and so of course
this is a factor there's less people
getting into the business there's higher
costs associated with this business and
overall if costs go up for the mining
that the end product for the customer
will go up as well all right here we
have it evergrand you know that they've
been dealing with so much and here we
have it yet another one former evergrant
CEO and CFO face probe and so this is
just one more potentially deflationary
Factor that's coming through okay we
don't know what's happening but we know
that Country Garden we know that ever
Grande we know that the real estate
inside of China which is so in important
because you've got concrete you've got
steel you've got copper you've got all
these different resources all these
Commodities they're being purchased from
all these different places around the
world but if now the whole real estate
thing has come to a halt
then watch out because that will impact
the rest of the world so keep an eye on
that all right
and of course we asked the question on
every episode even when I can barely
talk
what can I do about it despite car
companies suggesting 2030 there's going
to be EV only electric vehicles only
you've seen this Volkswagen we're gonna
go to you know electric vehicles only by
2030 Rolls Royce said the same if
Rolls-Royce it's a luxury like one of
the highest end Vehicles you can buy
that are mass produced or kind of mass
produced
you know when you're spending 400 500
600 plus thousand dollars these people
don't care about gas they don't care
about any of that so it's not about that
anymore it's about all of them going
with the same trend oil will remain in
use despite all of this so keep that in
mind okay so we know that there's still
demand there's still growth and while
maybe it's Shifting the total total
growth will go more towards Asia
um it's still Global on a global scale
so as an investor keep that in mind okay
Exxon Mobil is extremely smart for
diversifying into lithium and by the way
I believe if I'm not mistaken this was
the one that I brought up not that long
ago uh where they're actually Mining and
supposedly going to mind it in Arkansas
lithium being mined in the United States
for production to be used in the United
States I mean this is positive this is
good positive development who stands to
gain Exxon Mobil it's not necessarily
the strongest stock it should have been
done been doing better actually just
over the last several months it has
performed very well but you just look at
it go back many many years it doesn't
necessarily mean that the stock is going
to pump higher just keep that in mind if
you want more details if you want the
financial education and you want it for
free where can you go oh I know the
moneygps.com themoneygps.com has
everything you need so you go there you
click on the links you get what you need
and you will be informed and you're not
gonna have to pay anything for Compass I
made this for you this is how your
financial Journey Begins so check that
out the
moneygps.com all right and then the
comment of the day I want to thank Mark
for his comment here centrally planned
economies always suffer from
malinvestment Central Banking and fiat
currency allow the male investment to
grow to fatal proportions eventually the
currency printing interest rate
suppression and bureaucratic meddling so
impoverished society that total collapse
occurs and I wanted to bring this up to
pose the question to you do you believe
this I know some people they love
socialism they love a form of government
that they believe has more control so
that they can stop any form of bribery
or or you know you know one group
basically taking an advantage or taking
too much from one bringing it to the
other they want it to be centrally
managed
do you agree with that what are your
positions and please if you see
something anybody else out there giving
their opinion let's collaborate let's
let's not you know bump heads but let's
talk let's discuss I want to know your
thoughts I appreciate you being here
dealing with my voice hopefully a couple
more days thank you for being here and
I'll see you tomorrow take care